hello everyone and welcome to our q3
kickoff ok our meeting where we are
going to tell you about all of the stuff
that was awesome about q2 some
challenges about q2 how we are
structured going into q3 and then what
is most important than each of the the
groups will will present their own ok
ours from a parent perspective alright
so let me start by sharing my screen
good place to start
doo-doo-doo-doo cool I'm just gonna keep
it in this mode because easier for
clicking sake but this is this is our
outline accomplishments challenges
structure priorities starting first with
q2 accomplishments this was a really big
quarter for ipfs active exciting we saw
a lot of growth growth around the public
network growth of tons of cool apps
building on top of IP FS more end-users
getting the benefit from those apps and
more developers contributing to the
project we saw a lot of network growth
this is unprecedented growth in the size
of the network and that was super
awesome super exciting and also a
challenge for us in keeping up with said
network growth but it's exciting to see
these many people joining the wider IP
fest network um we also saw a ton of
apps proliferating this is my very very
happy attempt of taking this awesome
document created by the block projects
using IP of us and trying to update it
with my understanding of all of the cool
people who we got to chat with it I
guess camp in other places who are
either integrating with or building
things on top of the IP of S network and
getting to reach more users and getting
to build some really cool stuff out
there so if someone wants to improve
this and continue integrating my very
hacky edits into the actual document so
that they are categorized that'd be
awesome but as of right now this is like
more fleshed out than I've ever seen it
before and there's a ton of really cool
stuff that only just got out of this
border I'm so really really cool there
we also saw contributors go up on github
some of this might be because there was
so many people being pulled in for ipfs
can but I think in general kind of
across the project we're seeing and as a
we re bump up in the number of quarterly
contributors and hopefully we can
continue maintaining that level of
engagement and enthusiasm within the
wider community to contribute directly
to the project through ipfs and finally
these people aren't all in one place at
all they're four thousand community
contributors around the world and though
that's kind of our full-time contributor
stack and people have been participating
in this and bringing tons of
perspectives from from all over so big
thanks to work our community for making
all of this work that we do super
possible so wanted to look back a little
bit further at q1 and the important
things that were were happening in q1
there were some core releases of Jas and
ipfs we launched produce pool and then
there are a number of kind of releases
of projects elsewhere in the ecosystem
or iterative releases of things that
were kind of important for people for
people building on top of ipfs and when
you compare that to q2 you notice that
there was a marked increase in pace I
started running at his face in this
graph and that all culminated with IPs
camp right at the end of June bringing
together all of the people who are
working on core releases which we've had
a lot of core releases in in q2 but also
all of the people who are working on
kind of things like matters news and
radical and other groups like that
building on top of ipfs to solve some
pretty cool problems so speaking of IQs
camp ipfs camp was super awesome and not
something we spent a lot of effort on
this quarter and I think it really
really paid off for us and this was a
phenomenal experience there were 160
attendees 22 countries there was so much
enthusiasm and excitement in this space
and the before month the things that we
we spent our time on were creating these
awesome core and elective courses that
everyone got to spend some time in each
each of the first two morning's of ipfs
camp getting to dive deep on actually
how dad's work what really is the life
cycle of data and then building some
cool stuff on top of it which was super
awesome people
we also made this space for all of the
people throughout the wider community to
give lightning talks about how they've
been using IP FS live in factories how
they've been using it to like replace
DNS how they've been using it to solve
interesting really cool problems around
identity so
tons and tons and tons of amazing things
and I feel like I've been seeing threads
where imminently were able to make this
stuff these videos available so the
production team's been working really
hard to get all of that stuff out super
super fast and finally and this was this
was my favorite part was our sci-fi fair
of so many cool demos and and like
projects that people have been working
on that they could you could literally
interact with and play with
including a ble lippy TP transport which
is awesome and I can't wait to hopefully
get to play with that more this weekend
and teach G visualizers and NPM ipfs and
a ton of other really cool stuff super
super awesome so super awesome quarter
tons of growth tons of exciting stuff
tons of getting the community together
and pushing things forward but also some
challenges um definitely one of the
things was being able to deal with that
growth and having good network and
Gateway stability and reliability
throughout that and that was a challenge
for us that definitely we we've noticed
having started working on but aligning
ourselves to really commit to this going
forward and and make this kind of a a
core part of how we do our work is
checking and and being kind of like all
hands on deck to make sure that we have
really good reliability and scalability
there now that we're realizing that it's
you know we don't get to choose the
timing of when scalability happens it
chooses its own time and so that's
definitely an area where we experience
some challenges and and have to dedicate
more resources in the future to make
sure we're addressing it
another area that came up and this was
kind of a feedback loop through ipfs
camp but also before that was that our
documentation maybe wasn't doing a great
job of directing people to the latest
and greatest in how iqs works and how
how to get onboard onto the project in
terms of consuming it for adapt or some
other tool that you're trying to work on
and build on top and this definitely
created frustration within within our
community and is something that we think
we can do a whole ton better on but has
been kind of an area of underinvestment
where things have gotten a little stale
and
so that's an area that we also think we
can really dedicate some more resources
to and it's super critical that we are
kind of listening to all of the feedback
we got from my PFS camp to refocus our
energies and make ipfs even more
easy-to-use as a developer and and so
that's definitely an area for increased
dedication and focus and finally we did
a lot of awesome research around package
managers this past quarter we got to see
people you know coming into the package
managers call with like mirrors that
they were running on top of IP FS look
like generally you know we're working
pretty well for them and having really
awesome deduplication and other useful
benefits but also we had a lot of pretty
ambitious goals from an engineering
perspective for the improvements we
wanted to be making on the package
managers priority last quarter that
didn't quite make it over the line and
I'm really here that this is the
connection between all of the research
and and like understanding of the
package manager school and the actual
accomplishment of like turning that into
code integrated into the the core
protocol and so that was definitely an
area where you know we think we think in
order to you know we're halfway through
the year in order to really hit this
goal out of the park we need to be
dedicating more engineering resources to
making sure that that really happens and
doing it in a more tightly coupled way
so that the the work we're doing on
proof of concepts and research and
understanding has to be tightly like you
know communicating and like aligned with
the people who are actually you know
implementing those improvements and
making sure that we have fast iteration
on making sure we're heading in the
right direction at every step cool so
that kind of boils down into this list
of really important endeavors and the
scalability and reliability challenges
mostly focuses around the first two
which is making sure that I give us as a
product has great quality of service and
making sure that we have tests that
validate that we are set up to have that
great quality of service at every point
and that's kind of a level of production
readiness and kind of reliability that
we're investing in heavily right now
to to kind of address that feedback and
the challenges that we faced in q2 we
have of course a group who are focused
on kind of project operations continuing
to make sure that we you know do do the
important work involved in running the
project and also our communicative and
3d oriented about how we do that and
murderin and it's open and involved and
doing all of the various pieces of that
and then there are two other goals one
around package managers and making sure
from an end perspective that we are
aligning our research and our work and
we're hitting the school out of the
parks and then finally around developer
UX and accurate and usable documentation
and guides and so those are the kind of
needy areas of problems that we saw for
this quarter we're looking at these
areas and you're understanding that this
is really where we needed to be focusing
our time we realized that trying to
spread this across our existing working
group structure wasn't going to be the
most effective way to dedicate ourselves
to these problems and actually really
fix them efficiently we'd already felt a
little like having having requirements
or or problems spread across different
groups made it really difficult for
people to dedicate themselves to a
problem to really dive deep and
understand it and it hurts from a
prioritization perspective as well like
the context switching back and forth
between things and so that this was an
area where we definitely realized that
it affected not just what we needed to
do but how we needed to do it and how we
needed to organize ourselves to to make
it really effective so we're we have
reorganized ourself a little bit from a
from an org structure and this is not
new we kind of do a little check-in on
org structure and make a couple of
changes about every quarter of this year
so to look back in q1 we had and in this
org structure we had a ton of different
working groups I think about 10:00 or
11:00 and we were kind of split into two
teams of like you know in some case you
know just one who were point and a half
which was a problem but also you know
teams of up to like five or so I'm
spread within these different working
groups and it kind of proliferated kind
of over time because
excited about working groups who are
excited about problems we wanted to
solve but at the end of q1 and beginning
of q2 we realized that this kind of
multi membership of people in many many
different working groups and split
across maybe even three or four working
groups made it really difficult to
understand where they were spending
their focus and to have kind of the team
cohesion of solving problems together
and so we took some of the the working
groups that were kind of more had less
than two people dedicated to them or
we're kind of more problem area oriented
and we turned them into special interest
groups where you could still attend a
monthly meeting or do do work amongst a
group of people who were also focused on
that task but that your core execution
and the place where you did your
planning and your teamwork all lived
within a single working group and so we
kind of unified into this like core core
set of teams and that were again like
kind of a functional oriented so going
to fest Guiseppe up s project or working
group those sorts of things and but we
condensed ourselves a little bit in
order to minimize our planning and
overhead for these areas and the
condensing part we thought went well but
then when looking at these teams and
thinking about these problems we needed
to solve in q3 we realized all of these
problems we're gonna be spread across
all of the different working groups and
add additional overhead so when looking
at what we decided to do at the end of
q2 going into q3
this was actually orienting ourselves
into kind of task force oriented groups
where we're focused on a single problem
and so everyone still has membership in
a in a particular one particular working
group and not spread across many of them
but really dedicated to a particular
problem area so this changed a little
bit which things were our SIG's
in which things weren't working groups
so that people could be in a
cross-functional team with Jas people go
people project people all focused on
really hitting one of these problems at
the park
with that teeing ourselves off into what
is our q3 org structure I want to open
up the floor to the area leads for each
one of these kind of core groups to dive
into exactly what they're taking on this
quarter from kind of an okay our and
priority perspective
starting with Hector
hi I have a slide I think you do
we're still coming up with a name I
business as a service get raised as a
service infrastructure as a service we
don't know yet but the basic idea of
this task force is to bring gateways
into shape in a way that we can run this
infrastructure in a more serious
production product fashion having canary
deployments having nightly deployments
having service level agreements service
level objectives and monitoring all of
that in a consolidated way documenting
all of these are on gateways so that
everyone can come in and get the
knowledge rather fast be able to export
metrics from the gateways that not only
indicate how healthy the gateways
themselves are and whether they're
working but that was to provide health
information about the general state of
the IDF s network and part of creating
this gateway asset product is to expose
to the public that the gateways are not
ipfs they're not just ipfs running that
the gateways are a separate thing that
we provided as a service to the
community as protocol apps that other
people may choose to provide this
service as well and that's perfectly
fine that we as providers of that
service aspect that the usage of the
gateways follows certain guidelines for
example you cannot use them to offer
content with I get ways that we do not
agree with by policy and at the end to
have this
as a sustainable effort meaning to have
a team around this to have team waste
around this and you have to have inertia
how we are rendering all of this
together so it is sustainable in the
future and we can get creative ways to
to have this moving forward in the
future I hope that is OK for this for
description if anyone has questions I
probably only used three of my five
minutes great I see you know Kristin
moving on awesome thank you very much
Hector all right moving on to testing
infra Raul that's me so so yes basically
we took a decision based on you know
over observations of the performance
numbers and a few other regressions that
the latest releases contained the latest
go ipfs release has contained to
basically hold the release train until
we can actually characterize releases
and their impact on first of all in
terms of performance in terms of the
local environment of the node and also
in terms of how it affects how a
particular release affects the network
and the network so of course these this
level of characterization is you know
you can ask a lot of questions here a
how much has the behaved behavior of my
node improve or deteriorated but this
particular change that I'm committing or
this particular PR that introduces
honorific changes that introduces
protocol changes and so on how does the
network behave improve or deteriorate if
we deployed this particular King set to
the entire network how would this
particular change affect the current
overall emergent behavior when the
current composition of the network so
there are a lot of you know different
scenarios that we want to test but we do
recognize that we can't go from zero
from zero to 100 just one quarter but
all of these things are necessary to
gain full confidence in the changes that
we make aim to to test the reliability
the quality of service the scalability
characteristics and so on of every
this is going to require as I said a
number of different types of tests
amongst which we are prioritizing for q3
what we are calling live canary testing
so basically a particular change set a
particular release a particular commit
we're gonna be deploying it to to the
net where we're gonna be running it
against a live network and running a
master test plan and capturing a lot of
results and a lot of metrics from each
of those test cases there's gonna be a
test coordination service this we're
gonna integrate all of this with a
software engineering tooling that we
have in place this is a key aspect we
want this tool to be integrated in day
to day lives of ipfs engineers otherwise
is gonna stay in an island users
engineers are going to be able to
manually trigger jobs from from github
we're gonna publish all results in a
dashboard that would be accessible as
well to the community so that you can
engineers will be able to compare you
know how did this particular commit
affect the behavior relative to this
other commit right we're gonna have this
party we're gonna build a basic set of
initial test scenarios and which is
going to be expanded over the next
quarters we expressly taking a minimal
viable approach to this we know that the
test lab and like test bed and so on
efforts have been going on or have been
in conceptualization stages for a long
time that been several iteration so we
really wanted AI dumb it down this time
and get to the essentials such that we
can unblock you know the rainy stream
that is the core objective right now
another type of tests that we're gonna
be working on will be calling private
private network tests and these are
basically running an IP FS release
against a inside a private network that
we control will different that also
simulation and different levels of
control so on the first on a first
iteration we're going to be focusing on
non-record usable test test scenarios
this is basically running a test
without full control of you know the
topology the network and so on and
probably run it a few times so you can
get different observations and inform
judgments based on that then we're going
to be evolving that towards reproducible
test scenarios where will you actually
run a word code within text pictures
fixtures that will be able to provide a
fixed environment for those tests to get
more accurate and repeatable results all
the time and then finally what I'm
calling her a bit hermetic test cases
which is a bit of an esoteric term but
basically it means we control every
single aspect of that test including the
network so we need the until we control
the environment that that particular
test is running on in terms of i/o in
terms of CPU in terms of network latency
jitter and packet loss and well
everything that you can think about such
that time over time every single
iteration of those tests we expect them
to produce if run against the same
commits like very little jitter in the
results if anything very much situations
but they should be completely repeated
and I think I did consume about five
minutes but if you want to reach out to
me via skype or elsewhere
awesome thank you so much for all people
can also put them in for Q&A as well
tasting their questions all right
project operations teacher to run take
take away
you
hello can you hear me okay
can hear you just fine all right we were
coming in from from D webcam where there
are various projects being set up around
this it looks very cold it's a little
chilly it's not freezing so project
operations this was the group that was
basically tasked with keeping via the
nuts and bolts of the operation running
through the quarter serving the needs of
the other task forces and making sure
that several high priority initiatives
that we do want to keep pushing along
that by bit are not lost there are a
couple of well there is a cast of
characters involved each one of these
different areas in the project
Operations Group could be a task force
of its own some of them are several
working groups combined to some extent
so they you will probably hear their
voices in the future but I don't do a
the best that I can do in summarizing
what they're going to be doing this
quarter the first is the ipfs
implementations groups both Jas and go
are shipping quality releases on a
schedule if you look into the details of
the key results for this quarter there
are some interesting overlaps with the
test group and it's great to see all of
these groups focusing on quality and
stability in their core work this
quarter as well as a number of changes
and improvements to the process of how
the releases are constructed formulated
and shipped that the second major
segment is the activist community work a
lot of this work is really focused on
improving our communications
infrastructure making sure that the
community is well supported the last
couple of quarters we had some things
that we needed to communicate to the
community
everything from network scale stuff to
how we're responding to operations and
and Gateway down times and things like
that to also some of the changes that we
made in in the project and
prioritization so the some of the work
here surrounds making sure that we have
and also things like IP FS camp that we
have so much to share all the things
that came out of camp
the community um that's really probably
six months worth of stories that we
could we be telling so having an
organized and and clear schedule and
infrastructure to support that
communication in an ongoing way keeping
the community both informed and engaged
and aware of what we're focusing on the
my anti hacked
hot spot got me again locked my own
screen the third area as the
collaborations group so Arkady and I
spent some time last week credit sitting
down and kind of designing how we can
manage the really vast and diverse set
of partners that we have in the
relationships that we have with them and
also a system for understanding who our
future partners might be who is the
total set of people that are using idea
fests implementing their projects it
really dat adding ipfs to new whole
industries that that we've been saying
how do we have an understanding of that
whole landscape where we need to spend
our attention where we need to build new
relationships and where we need to
support and also a better set of
policies around where we don't need to
put our energy there's only a few people
you know did it getting a large part of
their time to collapse and a lot of
people spending a little bit of time
with collabs and it's really easy to
suck the time away from and focus away
from some of the core team members who
want to be able to have a system that
doesn't do that allows them to focus on
those four and in addition there are a
couple of high priority collaborations
like brave and and opera that have a
some work that needs to always be
happening in order to make sure those
are moving forward the fourth area is
research and this is something that
Devine and Yanis are going to be pushing
forward both in any increasing our
presence in a few different places
conferences and such as well as a
cadenced publication of the research
that we're doing and fine
area is to make sure that projects like
desktop and GUI even though they might
not be the highest priority in this
quarter in the next arse that we do have
dependencies on them especially in some
of the collaborations work making sure
that the rapid changes in the core
implementations aren't breaking those
making sure they are shipped as needed
in order to serve the task force and
also the community members that are
still pushing those projects for it are
supported and included in this work
awesome thank you so much Dietrich all
right on to package managers Andrew and
Michelle and let me know when when to
hit next slide
go for it Andrew thank you Oh a print I
apologize if my internet goes horribly
wrong
please let me know if anything doesn't
come through and I'll repeat it so I
just our timer the package managers team
has kind of already been doing a lot of
research for the past few months and now
we kind of geared up to the point where
we feel that we can really tackle the
package manager problem effectively and
we're going to focus efforts on file
system based package managers from for
this quarter so that is mostly Linux
system package managers but it avoids a
lot of the complications of other more
oh sorry some of the more complicated
setups of package managers are kind of
guiding star for the whole quarter is
going to be being like a a package
manager maintainer or a user who wishes
to mirror a
existing file system based package
manager should be able to import an
existing repository into ipfs from
scratch in a reasonable amount of time
be able to update it every time that
there are upstream changes again in a
reasonable amount of time and have a
good time doing it
the the experience from performance and
kind of the the root for it not being
able to to kind of set those users up to
fail is really key for this because we
want people to to kind of be able to
self-serve and be able to take the
tooling that we have and run with it and
start to kind of be able to bring in all
the package managers into ipfs without
necessarily needing us to be pushing
that directly next slide so split this
across two sections the doll-like is the
door
are they dogs audible or they know okay
so but it's not a problem they're very
cute so it kind of balances out the the
first thing that we're gonna do is
develop a number of been like baseline
benchmarks to give us visibility on the
current state of ipfs and how that how
it handles importing these very large
directories of files looking at up to a
million files in say the Ubuntu
repository which is significant and also
kind of unknown as to the different ways
that this can be done and then from the
end users perspective as well once you
have a mirror on ipfs how long does it
take them to install though
I get lost a little bit yes a little bit
so those benchmarks will give us the
kind of the path to then go down for the
rest of the quarter and actually try and
improve those things and we already have
a fairly good idea of the process of
setting up a package manager' they're
documented across every different kind
of linux distro already and we're
literally going to be running those
things and working out like where are
the pain points in ipfs right now next
slide
once we have those benchmarks we will
then research ways of improving those
benchmarks we are hoping for orders of
magnitude of improvement from
potentially mounting ipfs as a file
system to looking at the actual
documentation and the user experience of
setting up a mirror and this includes
like the different Flags different
experimental features trying to get kind
of a best practice for mirroring these
kinds of repositories onto ipfs
interviewing and researching the
processes that package repository
maintainer x' take at the moment to to
make sure that there we're fitting in
with the way that they work rather than
requiring them to change their processes
to work with IP FS and being able to
kind of reliably improve the speed of
adding data to ipfs is one of the key
things we're going to be hitting and
that's like the majority of the work so
it's it's very laser focused on being
able to successfully import these giant
file systems into IP FST's and then we
can move on to actually how we go about
spreading that across the internet and
alongside that we're actually kind of
slightly experimenting with the way that
we work as a team which we want to kind
of increase the level of agency that the
engineers and team members that are
working on this team have around solving
problems that our end users are
experiencing and being able to ship
those and kind of work through the the
problems for users
as being able to document the process
that we hopefully find out works well
and the things that we find don't work
well and share those with other teams so
that we can hopefully share their kind
of the process of shipping package
manager results for end users to the
whole of the IP of s pork
awesome thank you very much Andrew Eric
for dachshund UX yes start a timer here
too that's like a good idea yeah one of
the three big areas that Molly mentioned
were surfaced in last quarter was indeed
documentation user experience
no ipfs is is hard to use and we want to
make it a little bit more accessible and
of course Docs is like a small word
which contains the universe you know and
so it's easy easy to get distracted and
and try to boil the ocean but we really
want to make sure that we're focused in
this quarter and broadly that looks like
three steps of taking a look at the
documentation now and the platform that
we're using now and some other platforms
that might be more easier to use easy
from yeah offer more features as well as
as easier for us to implement and and
take a look at the user experience in a
in a methodical way and then use that
knowledge to actually try to make some
measurable improvements right now so I
more granularly right now we're doing
Porsche has kicked off a Content audit
which is sort of analogous to what was
done what she did for cluster in the
last quarter so we had that as kind of a
pattern to iterate on and follow and you
know the it's it's gonna serve his
problems its surface problems already in
fact some I believe someone's already
issued eight or posted a PR for a fix
for one of the things that was surfaced
so we are you know we're we're building
the plane while we're flying it and and
it's awesome fantastic so then we want
to already talk about the features and
that we want to look for in a in a tool
and maybe we end up where we are now but
we're thinking perhaps something more
along the lines of a Gatsby and people
are slacking some ideas like is it docu
Soros or something was thrown out
yesterday and slack if people have ideas
please please bring them on we have a
dock that were that we're putting
together with that lays out the
different features and advantages a big
one is translation ability the
internationalization and surprisingly
not a lot not a lot of tools really have
that as sort of a core functionality and
we want something that we don't have to
you know do a lot of customers that like
you know custom building for so I think
docu source maybe maybe does have that
and then down to understanding our users
and their needs where we have some some
super awesome UX talent on the team now
for example Jessica and we want to just
be methodical about who our users are
and in one way we can get some metrics
surrounding that is to quickly create
kind of a question feature on the
homepage of IPF SEO where people can
they can pick from a list of you know
what what do I want to do you know what
am I trying to accomplish you know I'm
I'm an app developer how how can i BFS
make my life easier or something like
that and and these would this would kind
of be kind of a double-edged sword
hopefully it would it would make the
content it would drive these people to
maybe a a specific area of the current
documentation site that has that has
some content that might be useful to
them but at the same time it also gives
us some metrics you know if we get a lot
of people saying I'm a researcher in
them and I'm trying to figure out this D
web stuff then maybe that will that will
help us prioritize
the you know the personas that we create
and then yeah flying the plane building
the plane while we're flying it we want
to see about getting a documentation
specialist whether that's a scope
contributor or or whatever someone who
is good at words and you know that
that's the most important thing and
that's going to take some work as we
know to bring on anyone you always takes
a little time and we're not seeing that
as a blocker though to to improving our
content right now because we have
content right now that was graded by a
lot of us and and we have we understand
a lot of us understand ipfs better than
anyone else in the world and so a be
leaning on I might be leaning reaching
out to folks to contribute and also feel
to feel your pain points you know I we
want to we really want to hear what you
have heard you know if you've if you
yourself have experienced confusion
throughout documentation or you are
aware of issues that people have posted
or just conversations maybe the ipfs
camp someone was confused about
something just please reach out in our
file an issue and if you're in your shot
of this if you're watching this later
and you're part of the community we so
value that kind of input from directly
from you and I've just posted into the
chat where you can where you can put an
issue in github for us so yeah we're
going to do some fixes and we're also
proto school is a is a big part of
Education and making ipfs understandable
so that is has been folded into this at
a certain level to this project
awesome thank you so much Eric
cool awesome so that is the awesome set
of work that people are doing this
coming quarter and very directed
specifically toward the the challenges
and areas where we saw room for
improvement and really targeted focus
this next quarter so yeah big round of
applause for all of the the folks who
spent their hard time I'd worked getting
in their classic a mutant class could be
that an awesome awesome awesome yeah
andrew is also mentioning in the chat he
got a fix in for the docs already I I
created a PR on the dogs so we we're all
we can all chip in and help I'll make
that one a lot better it's not not only
the docs team is gonna write docs for
all the great Cox awesome
well thank you all for participating in
this and I'm going to stop the recording